anytime NBA team owners were some of the
first people to pledge support for their
arena workers as the coronavirus hit us
Shores now Dallas Mavericks owner Mark
Cuban says companies are bailed out all
employees should have the chance to
benefit from a possible turnaround in
the form of stock compensation
Mark Cuban joins us now on the phone
good morning to you mark good morning
we've been through these bailouts before
and there have been a lot of political
finger-pointing afterwards you have a
thought about how this should be done
yeah we already know what's going to
happen you know a year after this you
know plays out and it will we'll look
back and say why don't we you know
consider the workers the everyday hourly
worker the people you know making
minimum wage
why don't we reward them as well and so
let's get ahead of it and whatever we do
in a bailout make sure that every worker
gets compensated and is treated equally
and that the executives don't get
rewarded extra to stick around because
they got nowhere else to go you know the
government's taking their risk out of
the equation let's treat all workers
equally so but how would we do that
because one of the things that you know
look there's gonna be all sorts of
stimulus plans bailouts and the like and
one of the things we want to do is get
that money into the system as quickly as
possible you don't want people not to
take the money and so the more strings
that you attach to it and that's just
you don't but the more that you do the
more likely it is that certain people
may hold back and so I'm trying to
figure out how to how to capture that
balance okay two different things one
getting money into the system is a
function of the Fed and they're
obviously taking those steps right now
to is when there's a bailout when
there's a bailout and the government
comes in and offers assistance to an
organization or public company in
particular whether it's an airline
whatever it may be
they're they're most likely going to be
steps taken by the company and
historically this is what has taken
place where they reward the executives
and they reprice their options they give
them more stock they give them warrants
they give them options whatever it may
be whatever it is that a company does or
their executives they should be required
- proportionally do the same thing for
everyone else that works for the company
period in the story part 1 part 2
no buybacks not now not a year from now
not 20 years from now not ever because
effectively you're spending taxpayer
money to buy back stock and to me that's
just just the wrong way to do that do
you think that we're gonna have a
national bailout for companies across
the board do you think we should we
should look to Airlines or other
specific industries for help I mean that
we should be helping how would you
approach it I think we have to I mean
look this is cascading and it's getting
worse by the minute the number of
layoffs is just skyrocketing and so if I
walked in the door the first thing I
would do is prioritize and I would
create effectively and this isn't the
right word but effectively create two
buckets budget number one and we have to
do with these things in parallel bucket
number one is how do you how do you help
companies of all sizes to keep paying
their employees and not lay them off or
fire them because we want to keep people
employed even if it's make good work
even if this is a Tennessee Valley
Authority all over again and we're just
subsidizing companies to keep their
employees on the payroll and finding
things for them to do because keeping
them in the payroll it will pay off more
in terms of minimizing taxpayer
requirements than releasing them or fire
them or laying them off and then having
to go find jobs in the future so that's
bucket number one do what you can to
keep people employed but number two
we've already seen significant layoffs
there were people who were already
unemployed that's where we might
consider helping people whereas if
you're going on to unemployment or any
type of government federal government
assistance then maybe we pay them a
bonus and that's not a good word for
this but give them a check for the
thousand dollars to help them get
through the immediate need because
they've just been laid off where they
don't have a job and that helps people
get through these problem times but they
should be just two very distinct buckets
but the priority has got to be working
to keep to working to help people stay
employed I actually don't like the idea
of just giving everybody $1,000
because for a lot of small businesses
you know if they know that their
employees are going to get a check and
that business is struggling they may say
you know what I'm going to release I'm
going to lay them off or fire them
because I know they have a backstop but
some sort and when this is hopefully all
over in three or four months like people
are predicting we'll figure it out then
that creates a far greater stress on the
system so I really think that the
priority needs to be one keep people
employed and to those who have lost
their job you know we've seen the
entertainment industry we've seen the
hospitality industry that the airline
industry the transportation issues all
decimated and where there have been
layoffs I don't have a problem with
those people as they get on to federal
assistance giving them a check up front
to help support them in the economy but
we've got to deal with both and I think
the priority needs to be on helping
people keep their jobs okay mark hang on
for a second want to see we can bring
Joe into the conversation Joe you there
sure hey Joe hey Mark how are you I you
know it's just good
nobody likes any of this stuff but I
mean are all bets are off aren't they I
mean these are it's don't any time we
think you know we don't want to do this
moral but I mean do we really do we need
to talk about moral hazard when you're
talking about a deadly virus I I don't
know it seems like any other time I
understand that oh I agree Joe
perfection is the enemy of progress you
know in normal times you want to look at
all the distribution of outcomes and try
to do the best thing that helps the most
number of people but this is this is a
new world literally this is this is a
new new normal and we have to just look
at what's in front of us and deal with
it you know and yes there's going to be
people who scan the system but you can't
hurt you hurt the people who need it and
risk risk supporting the economy and and
what the tragic things that could happen
there because you're trying to avoid
some people scamming the system but you
do bring up a good point in terms of
moral hazard what we can do is increase
the penalties and so like you know when
we went through the financial crisis you
know people talk about how no one went
to jail well as part
of all of this you know whether it's a
bailout whether it's a thousand dollar
check for those who have lost their jobs
we should add if you try to scam the
system in any way shape or form
there is jail as your penalty because we
want to introduce a moral hazard I'm
going to talk about you know something
ridiculously draconian but still there
should be something it shouldn't be a
civil issue it should be only a criminal
issue and everybody should know that
going in okay yeah in Mark III just if
we have to decide what kind of snapback
we're gonna get when we do get through
this and you know I pray that it's
sooner rather than later House like me
I'm gonna be to sit on the side mean did
you did you appreciate it enough when
you're sitting there what I'm jonesing
on draftkings I'm like I'm gonna bet on
like eSports but I don't think you can
do that either but I mean but missing
the front snapback yeah you know you you
know we all we all use sports as a way
to celebrate the way to get excited the
way to come together nobody throws a
parade when Apple or Google will have
the most amazing quarter they've ever
had but when a team wins the
championship they throw a parade and so
hopefully we'll have the Olympics and
we'll be able to come together as a
country around our team our you know the
u.s. Olympics team and that'll be great
for us well I'll get out out of the
house we'll all celebrate together
hopefully when the NBA NHL Major League
Soccer major league baseball football
all start to really happen again we'll
all get excited about our teams and as
communities will come together Sports
will be a vital mechanism for bringing
people back together when this happens
and so yeah I'm excited for that but in
reality basketball is the last thing on
my mind right now but I would say we're
using the Mavericks to try to do as much
as we can to keep people energized and
engaged while everybody's stuck at home
hey Mark we're gonna try to bring back
in if we can Becky hey Mark I hey Mark
it's good to talk to you I saw your
reaction I think we all did the cameras
were on you when you were on the
sidelines of the game
to find out that the NBA was shutting
things down your reaction I think at
that point was something like are you
kidding me or something along those
lines maybe changed your tune really
quickly what what to kind of walk us
through your emotional you know the hill
kind of climb didn't go back off on the
other side yeah I mean we had considered
all the potential options that the Mavs
management and and really it was really
a nighted my response was prior to the
game I met with the players and one of
the players said what are the chances
the season gets us both suspended or
postponed and I said 510 percent at most
and you know I've considered it but I
really didn't consider it likely based
on the information we had at that time
and then when it came across that Rudy
Gobert had been sick and the one game
has been cancelled and the season was
canceled it I was just stunned and you
know then my mind started thinking you
know be entrepreneur me took over okay
what are the elements that are that I
need to consider going forward
you know what are my responsibilities
you know who's going to be helped you
know what are the opportunities and
who's going to get hurt and this was so
drastic and so outside the realm of
anything I really considered likely that
that's when I started thinking about
okay who's going to get hurt the most
and what can I do and and how can we
make sure that everybody lands on their
feet because you know let me just say
this you know when when you're really
blessed like I am the value of one
marginal dollar becomes minimal and so
I've gotten to the point in my life
where it's not just about how much more
money I can make but what else what
other types of impact can I have and and
so that literally was the one that first
things that crossed my mind what can I
do to try to help people and try to make
it better and starting with the Mavs
employees or rina employees that was my
focus and so you know that that's so
when I did that interview that's what I
was thinking about and then obviously my
family and my mom is 82 and other people
like what happens next because it was
complete uncertainty done hey Mark thank
you I think we got to watch your
reaction and it kind of
the relative time I'm sorry could you
repeat that Andrew no I was gonna ask
mark a final question you invest in the
markets yes what are you thinking what
would you do
you know I've been putting in you know
one one and a half percent to work on
every down day by mostly SP Y's and
dipping my toes I bought a little Live
Nation I actually sold some puts and
sold some calls on some things I had
because just the premiums are just
incredible
I mean it's stunning that the premiums
that are in place right now but it looks
like we're starting to get into a
training trading range you know up five
percent down five percent up five
percent down five percent and I'm not
quite sure why and I'm not quite sure if
the Kwan's have kicked back in yet and
feel like they have good data to start
making a lot of trades and so you know
it felt like for a while we had active
management doing all the work and try to
figure things out and now over the last
three days it feels like we're starting
to get more algorithmic trading coming
into the market and now today based off
of the you know being up yesterday and
being down about the same today it looks
like we may be starting to fall into a
range so you know I'll act accordingly
but it's just every day this is just
like how much information can you
acquire and what new is coming along and
how does that change things so I'm like
everybody else you know I'll get my toe
in the water hoping that two years from
now you know this will all be a
nightmare that we put behind us and the
market will be much higher let's hope
you're right Mark Cuban thank you so
very much and please say stay thank you
guys fee and thanks for keep on working
I mean it's good it gives us all a sense
of normality when we're stuck at home
and we get to turn Squawk Box on and
CNBC all day long for that matter makes
it feel a little better
thank you mark so very very much
you